add v5.1.5 release notes (#11629)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-5.1.5.md

    - Fix the issue that the Region cache is not cleaned up in time when the Region is merged [#37141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37141)
    - Fix the panic issue caused by the connection array race in the KV client [#33773](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33773)
    - Fix the issue that when TiDB Binlog is enabled, executing the `ALTER SEQUENCE` statement might cause a wrong metadata version and cause Drainer to exit [#36276](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36276)
    - Fix the bug that TiDB may panic when querying statement summary tables [#35340](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35340)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when using TiFlash to scan tables with empty range although TiFlash does not support reading tables with empty range yet [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)
    - Fix the issue that the `avg()` function returns `ERROR 1105 (HY000): other error for mpp stream: Could not convert to the target type - -value is out of range.` when queried from TiFlash [#29952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29952)

>     - Fix the issue that `ERROR 1105 (HY000): close of nil channel` is returned when using `HashJoinExec` [#30289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30289)
>     - Fix the issue that `ERROR 1105 (HY000): close of nil channel` is returned when using `HashJoinExec` [#30289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30289)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `ERROR 1105 (HY000): close of nil channel` is returned when using `HashJoinExec` [#30289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30289)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiKV reports the `invalid store ID 0` error when using Follower Read [#12478](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12478)
    - Fix the possible duplicate commit records in pessimistic transactions when async commit is enabled [#12615](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12615)
    - Support configuring the `unreachable_backoff` item to avoid Raftstore broadcasting too many messages after one peer becomes unreachable [#13054](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13054)
    - Fix the issue that successfully committed optimistic transactions may report the `Write Conflict` error when the network is poor [#34066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34066)
    - Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that a removed tombstone store appears again after the PD leader transfer ​​[#4941](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4941)
    - Fix the issue that scheduling cannot start immediately after the PD leader transfer [#4769](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4769)
    - Fix the wrong status code of `not leader` [#4797](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4797)

>     - Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that a removed tombstone store appears again after the PD leader transfer ​​[#4941](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4941)
    - Fix the issue that scheduling cannot start immediately after the PD leader transfer [#4769](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4769)
    - Fix the wrong status code of `not leader` [#4797](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4797)
    - Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)
    - Fix the issue that PD cannot correctly handle dashboard proxy requests [#5321](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5321)
    - Fix a bug of TSO fallback in some corner cases [#4884](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4884)
    - Fix the issue that the TiFlash learner replica might not be created in specific scenarios [#5401](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5401)
    - Fix the issue that the label distribution has residual labels in the metrics [#4825](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4825)

>     - Fix the issue that region checker always occupy one cpu in some corner cases.[#4920](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4920)

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.5 Release Notes

Release date: December 28, 2022

TiDB version: 5.1.5

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v5.1.5#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

## Improvements

+ TiDB

+ PD

>     (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> PD)- Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)

Reviewer: This also seems to be a compatibility change, because it changes the default value of a config from `0` to `1`.

Author: 果然是 https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/release-5.3.2  我挪到兼容性变更下面了

    (dup: release-5.4.3.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the wrong result that occurs when enabling dynamic mode in partitioned tables for TiFlash [#37254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37254)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of `GREATEST` and `LEAST` when passing in unsigned `BIGINT` arguments [#30101](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30101)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of deleting data of multiple tables using `left join` [#31321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31321)
    (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the result of `concat(ifnull(time(3)))` in TiDB is different from that in MySQL [#29498](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29498)
    (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the SQL statements that contain `cast(integer as char) union string` return wrong results [#29513](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29513)
    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `INL_HASH_JOIN` might hang when used with `LIMIT` [#35638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35638) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

>     - Fix wrong `ANY_VALUE` result when there are regions returning empty data [#30923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30923)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the wrong `ANY_VALUE` result that occurs when a Region returns empty data [#30923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30923)
```

    (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of index join caused by an innerWorker panic [#31494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31494)

    <!--planner owner: winoros-->
    
        (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that a SQL operation is canceled when its JSON type column joins its `CHAR` type column [#29401](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29401)

   <!--sql-infra and tidb owner: bb7133-->

    (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the background HTTP service of TiDB might not exit successfully and makes the cluster in an abnormal state [#30571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30571)
    (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that concurrent column type change causes inconsistency between the schema and the data [#31048](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31048)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `KILL TIDB` cannot take effect immediately on idle connections [#24031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24031)

>     - Fix the bug that setting any session variable will make `tidb_snapshot` unwork. [#35515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35515)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that setting any session variable will make `tidb_snapshot` not working [#35515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35515)
```

>     - Fix the bug that setting any session variable will make `tidb_snapshot` not working [#35515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35515)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that setting any session variable will make `tidb_snapshot` fail to work [#35515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35515)
```

    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the Region cache is not cleaned up in time when the Region is merged [#37141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37141)

>     - Fix the panic issue caused by the connection array race. [#33773](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33773)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue caused by the connection array race in the KV client [#33773](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33773)
```

    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `ERROR 1105 (HY000): close of nil channel` is returned when using `HashJoinExec` [#30289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30289)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiKV and TiFlash return different results when querying logical operations [#37258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37258)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `EXECUTE` statement might throw an unexpected error in specific scenarios [#37187](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37187)
    (dup: release-5.4.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the planner wrong behaviors that occur when `tidb_opt_agg_push_down` and `tidb_enforce_mpp` are enabled [#34465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34465)
    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix a bug that TiDB might send coprocessor requests when executing the `SHOW COLUMNS` statement [#36496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36496) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - Add warnings for `lock tables` and `unlock tables` when `enable-table-lock` flag is not enabled [#28967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28967)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Add warnings for `lock tables` and `unlock tables` when the `enable-table-lock` flag is not enabled [#28967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28967)
```

    <!--transaction owner:cfzjywxk -->

    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that successfully committed optimistic transactions may report the `Write Conflict` error when the network is poor [#34066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34066)
    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

+ PD

    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that a removed tombstone store appears again after the PD leader transfer ​​[#4941](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4941)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that scheduling cannot start immediately after the PD leader transfer [#4769](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4769)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the wrong status code of `not leader` [#4797](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4797)

>     (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> PD)- Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)

Reviewer: duplicate with line 22

Author: removed

    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the overflow that occurs when casting `FLOAT` to `DECIMAL` [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that logical operators return wrong results when the argument type is UInt8 [#6127](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6127)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential `index out of bounds` error if calling `json_length` with empty string [#2705](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/2705)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix wrong decimal comparison results in corner cases [#4512](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4512)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix `TiFlash_schema_error` reported when `NOT NULL` columns are added [#4596](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4596)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that TiFlash bootstrap fails when `0.0` is used as the default value for integers, for example, `` `i` int(11) NOT NULL DEFAULT '0.0'`` [#3157](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3157)

+ Tools

>     + TiDB-Binlog

Author: ```suggestion
    + TiDB Binlog
```

>         - Fix the bug that Drainer can't send request correctly to Pump when setting `compressor=gzip` [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Drainer cannot send requests to Pump correctly when `compressor` is set to `zip` [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152)
```

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix the issue that system tables cannot be restored because concurrently backing up system tables makes the table name fail to update [#29710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29710)

    + TiCDC

        (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix data loss that occurs in special incremental scanning scenarios [#5468](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5468)

>         - Add some metrics in the sorter component [#5690](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5690)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that there are no sorter metrics [#5690](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5690)
```

    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `KILL TIDB` cannot take effect immediately on idle connections [#24031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24031)
    - Fix the bug that setting any session variable will make `tidb_snapshot` unwork. [#35515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35515)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the Region cache is not cleaned up in time when the Region is merged [#37141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37141)
    - Fix the panic issue caused by the connection array race. [#33773](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33773)
    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that when TiDB Binlog is enabled, executing the `ALTER SEQUENCE` statement might cause a wrong metadata version and cause Drainer to exit [#36276](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36276) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the bug that TiDB may panic when querying statement summary tables [#35340](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35340)

>     - None [#30402](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30402) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)
>     - None [#30587](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30587) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)
>     - None [#37414](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37414) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when using TiFlash to scan tables with empty range although TiFlash does not support reading tables with empty range yet [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `avg()` function returns `ERROR 1105 (HY000): other error for mpp stream: Could not convert to the target type - -value is out of range.` when queried from TiFlash [#29952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29952)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `ERROR 1105 (HY000): close of nil channel` is returned when using `HashJoinExec` [#30289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30289)

>     - None [#30923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30923) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
>     - None [#37932](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37932) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
>     - None [#30923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30923) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     - None [#30923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30923) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     - None [#37932](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37932) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
>     - None [#30923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30923) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `ERROR 1105 (HY000): close of nil channel` is returned when using `HashJoinExec` [#30289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30289)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiKV and TiFlash return different results when querying logical operations [#37258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37258)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `EXECUTE` statement might throw an unexpected error in specific scenarios [#37187](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37187)

>     - None [#27125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27125) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that scheduling cannot start immediately after the PD leader transfer [#4769](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4769)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the wrong status code of `not leader` [#4797](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4797)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> PD)- Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that PD cannot correctly handle dashboard proxy requests [#5321](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5321)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix a bug of TSO fallback in some corner cases [#4884](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4884)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that the TiFlash learner replica might not be created in specific scenarios [#5401](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5401)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that the label distribution has residual labels in the metrics [#4825](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4825)

>     - None [#4920](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4920) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that schedulers do not work when `SchedulerMaxWaitingOperator` is set to `1` [#4946](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4946)

+ TiFlash

  <!--compute owner: zanmato1984 -->
  
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix incorrect `microsecond` when casting string to datetime [#3556](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3556)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when TLS is enabled [#4196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4196)
    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that TiFlash might crash due to an error in parallel aggregation [#5356](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5356) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that a query containing `JOIN` might be hung if an error occurs [#4195](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4195)

> - None [#5849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5849) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix repeated crashes caused by the `commit state jump backward` errors [#2576](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/2576)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix potential errors when querying on a table with many delete operations [#4747](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4747)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'
'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the wrong result that occurs when casting `DATETIME` to `DECIMAL` [#4151](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4151)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the bug that some exceptions are not handled properly [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)

>     - Fix the metadata corruption issue when `Prepare Merge` is triggered after a new election is finished but the isolated peer is not informed [#3435](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3435) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `Prepare Merge` may cause the metadata of the raft store to be damaged and cause TiFlash to restart [#3435](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3435) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
```

    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that schedulers do not work when `SchedulerMaxWaitingOperator` is set to `1` [#4946](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4946)

+ TiFlash

  <!--compute owner: zanmato1984 -->
  
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix incorrect `microsecond` when casting string to datetime [#3556](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3556)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when TLS is enabled [#4196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4196)
    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that TiFlash might crash due to an error in parallel aggregation [#5356](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5356) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that a query containing `JOIN` might be hung if an error occurs [#4195](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4195)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- None [#5849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5849) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
```
@zanmato1984  Please review this issue

    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that an MPP query might fail due to random gRPC keepalive timeout [#4662](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4662)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the result of `IN` is incorrect in multi-value expressions [#4016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4016)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that expired data is recycled slowly [#4146](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4146)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the overflow that occurs when casting `FLOAT` to `DECIMAL` [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that logical operators return wrong results when the argument type is UInt8 [#6127](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6127)

>     - None [#5849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5849) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that expired data is recycled slowly [#4146](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4146)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the overflow that occurs when casting `FLOAT` to `DECIMAL` [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that logical operators return wrong results when the argument type is UInt8 [#6127](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6127)
    - None [#5849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5849) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential `index out of bounds` error if calling `json_length` with empty string [#2705](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/2705)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix wrong decimal comparison results in corner cases [#4512](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4512)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix `TiFlash_schema_error` reported when `NOT NULL` columns are added [#4596](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4596)

>     - [#4091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4091) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.5 Release Notes

Release date: December 28, 2022

TiDB version: 5.1.5

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v5.1.5#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| xx | xx | xx |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| xx | xx | xx | xx |

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the Region cache is not cleaned up in time when the Region is merged [#37141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37141)

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the Region cache is not cleaned up in time when the Region is merged [#37141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37141)
>     (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix a bug that TiDB might send coprocessor requests when executing the `SHOW COLUMNS` statement [#36496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36496) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Author: ```suggestion
```

+ PD

    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> PD)- Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)

+ TiFlash

    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the bug that some exceptions are not handled properly [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

> 

Reviewer 4: - Fix the panic issue caused by the connection array race. [#33773](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33773)

Author: 添加到 L61了

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    
    <!--executor owner: zanmato1984-->  
    
```

    (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the window function causes TiDB to panic instead of reporting an error [#30326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30326)
    (dup: release-5.4.3.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the wrong result that occurs when enabling dynamic mode in partitioned tables for TiFlash [#37254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37254)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of `GREATEST` and `LEAST` when passing in unsigned `BIGINT` arguments [#30101](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30101)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of deleting data of multiple tables using `left join` [#31321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31321)

>     (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the result of `concat(ifnull(time(3))` in TiDB is different from that in MySQL [#29498](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29498)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the result of `concat(ifnull(time(3)))` in TiDB is different from that in MySQL [#29498](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29498)
```

    (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the SQL statements that contain `cast(integer as char) union string` return wrong results [#29513](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29513)
    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `INL_HASH_JOIN` might hang when used with `LIMIT` [#35638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35638) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix wrong `any_value` result when there are regions returning empty result [#30923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30923) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)
    (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of index join caused by an innerWorker panic [#31494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31494)

>     (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that a SQL operation is canceled when its JSON type column joins its `CHAR` type column [#29401](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29401)

Author: ```suggestion

    <!--planner owner: winoros-->
    
        (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that a SQL operation is canceled when its JSON type column joins its `CHAR` type column [#29401](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29401)

   <!--sql-infra and tidb owner: bb7133-->

```

    (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the background HTTP service of TiDB might not exit successfully and makes the cluster in an abnormal state [#30571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30571)
    (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that concurrent column type change causes inconsistency between the schema and the data [#31048](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31048)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `KILL TIDB` cannot take effect immediately on idle connections [#24031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24031)
    - Fix the bug that setting any session variable will make `tidb_snapshot` unwork. [#35515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35515) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the Region cache is not cleaned up in time when the Region is merged [#37141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37141)

>     - Fix the data race issue of the connection array. [#33773](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33773) @[ystaticy](https://github.com/ystaticy)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue caused by the connection array race. [#33773](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33773)
```

    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that when TiDB Binlog is enabled, executing the `ALTER SEQUENCE` statement might cause a wrong metadata version and cause Drainer to exit [#36276](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36276) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

>     - None [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 5: I moved it down to the `Tools` section.

>     (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the panic issue caused by the `fatal error: concurrent map read and map write` error [#35340](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35340)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the bug that TiDB may panic when querying statement summary tables [#35340](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35340)
```

    - None [#37932](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37932) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#30923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30923) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `ERROR 1105 (HY000): close of nil channel` is returned when using `HashJoinExec` [#30289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30289)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiKV and TiFlash return different results when querying logical operations [#37258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37258)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `EXECUTE` statement might throw an unexpected error in specific scenarios [#37187](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37187)
    - None [#27125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27125) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)
    (dup: release-5.4.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the planner wrong behaviors that occur when `tidb_opt_agg_push_down` and `tidb_enforce_mpp` are enabled [#34465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34465)

>     (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix a bug that TiDB might send coprocessor requests when executing the `SHOW COLUMNS` statement [#36496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36496) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Reviewer 5: This is also in the `Improvements` section.

Author: Removed tha one and keep this one.

>     - None [#28967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28967) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Add warnings for `lock tables` and `unlock tables` when `enable-table-lock` flag is not enabled [#28967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28967) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

>     - None [#36329](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36329) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that range partitions allow multiple `MAXVALUE` partitions [#36329](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36329) @[u5surf](https://github.com/u5surf)
```

    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue that might occur when a peer is being split and destroyed at the same time [#12825](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12825) @[BusyJay](https://github.com/BusyJay)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is replaced with the peer that is destroyed without being initialized when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV reports the `invalid store ID 0` error when using Follower Read [#12478](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12478)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the possible duplicate commit records in pessimistic transactions when async commit is enabled [#12615](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12615)
    (dup: release-5.4.3.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support configuring the `unreachable_backoff` item to avoid Raftstore broadcasting too many messages after one peer becomes unreachable [#13054](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13054)

>     (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that successfully committed optimistic transactions may report the `Write Conflict` error when the network is poor [#34066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34066)

Author: ```suggestion

    <!--transaction owner:cfzjywxk -->

    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that successfully committed optimistic transactions may report the `Write Conflict` error when the network is poor [#34066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34066)
```

    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

>     - None [#13147](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13147) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix a bug of TSO fallback in some corner cases [#4884](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4884)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that the TiFlash learner replica might not be created in specific scenarios [#5401](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5401)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that the label distribution has residual labels in the metrics [#4825](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4825)
    - None [#4920](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4920) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that when there exists a Store with large capacity (2T for example), fully allocated small Stores cannot be detected, which results in no balance operator being generated [#4805](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4805)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that schedulers do not work when `SchedulerMaxWaitingOperator` is set to `1` [#4946](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4946)

+ TiFlash

> 

Author: ```suggestion

  <!--compute owner: zanmato1984 -->
  
```

    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix incorrect `microsecond` when casting string to datetime [#3556](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3556)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when TLS is enabled [#4196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4196)
    (dup: release-6.1.1.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that TiFlash might crash due to an error in parallel aggregation [#5356](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5356) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that a query containing `JOIN` might be hung if an error occurs [#4195](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4195)

>     (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the bug that invalid storage directory configurations lead to unexpected behaviors [#4093](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4093)

Author: ```suggestion

    <!--storage owner: flowbehappy -->

    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the bug that invalid storage directory configurations lead to unexpected behaviors [#4093](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4093)
```

    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix `TiFlash_schema_error` reported when `NOT NULL` columns are added [#4596](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4596)
    - [#4091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4091) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#5979](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5979) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#4091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4091) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - [#4091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4091) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#5385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5385) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#4405](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4405) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that TiFlash bootstrap fails when `0.0` is used as the default value for integers, for example, `` `i` int(11) NOT NULL DEFAULT '0.0'`` [#3157](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3157)

+ Tools

> 

Reviewer 5: + TiDB-Binlog
        - Fix the bug that Drainer can't send request correctly to Pump when setting `compressor=gzip` [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)

    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `ERROR 1105 (HY000): close of nil channel` is returned when using `HashJoinExec` [#30289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30289)
    - None [#30923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30923) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#37932](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37932) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#30923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30923) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `ERROR 1105 (HY000): close of nil channel` is returned when using `HashJoinExec` [#30289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30289)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiKV and TiFlash return different results when querying logical operations [#37258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37258)

>     (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `EXECUTE` statement might throw an unexpected error in specific scenarios [#37187](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37187)

Reviewer 5: These belong to sig/execution

    - None [#27125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27125) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)

>     (dup: release-5.4.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the planner wrong behaviors that occur when `tidb_opt_agg_push_down` and `tidb_enforce_mpp` are enabled [#34465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34465)

Reviewer 5: These belong to sig/planner

    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that expired data is recycled slowly [#4146](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4146)
    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the overflow that occurs when casting `FLOAT` to `DECIMAL` [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that logical operators return wrong results when the argument type is UInt8 [#6127](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6127)
    - None [#5849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5849) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential `index out of bounds` error if calling `json_length` with empty string [#2705](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/2705)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix wrong decimal comparison results in corner cases [#4512](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4512)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix `TiFlash_schema_error` reported when `NOT NULL` columns are added [#4596](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4596)

>     - [#4091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4091) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>     - None [#5979](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5979) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>     - None [#4091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4091) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>     - [#4091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4091) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>     - None [#5385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5385) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>     - None [#4405](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4405) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that TiFlash bootstrap fails when `0.0` is used as the default value for integers, for example, `` `i` int(11) NOT NULL DEFAULT '0.0'`` [#3157](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3157)

+ Tools

    + TiDB-Binlog

        - Fix the bug that Drainer can't send request correctly to Pump when setting `compressor=gzip` [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152)

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix the issue that system tables cannot be restored because concurrently backing up system tables makes the table name fail to update [#29710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29710)

    + TiCDC

        (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix data loss that occurs in special incremental scanning scenarios [#5468](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5468)

>         - fix no sorter metrics [#5690](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5690) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 7: Add some metrics in the sorter component.

    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix `TiFlash_schema_error` reported when `NOT NULL` columns are added [#4596](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4596)
    - [#4091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4091) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#5979](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5979) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#4091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4091) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - [#4091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4091) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#5385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5385) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    - None [#4405](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4405) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    (dup: release-5.3.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that TiFlash bootstrap fails when `0.0` is used as the default value for integers, for example, `` `i` int(11) NOT NULL DEFAULT '0.0'`` [#3157](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3157)

> + Tools
>    + TiDB-Binlog
>         - Fix the bug that Drainer can't send request correctly to Pump when setting `compressor=gzip` [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152)

Author: ```suggestion
+ Tools

    + TiDB-Binlog

        - Fix the bug that Drainer can't send request correctly to Pump when setting `compressor=gzip` [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.5 Release Notes

Release date: December 28, 2022

TiDB version: 5.1.5

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v5.1.5#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| xx | xx | xx |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| xx | xx | xx | xx |

## Improvements

+ TiDB

+ PD

    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> PD)- Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)

+ TiFlash

>     (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the bug that some exceptions are not handled properly [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)

Author: ```suggestion

```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.5 Release Notes

Release date: December 28, 2022

TiDB version: 5.1.5

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v5.1.5#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

> 
> ### System variables
> 
> | Variable name | Change type | Description |
> |--------|------------------------------|------|
> | xx | xx | xx |
> 
> ### Configuration file parameters
> 
> | Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
> | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
> | xx | xx | xx | xx |

Author: ```suggestion
```
